
Human Languages 3 layer devolution model.

1.
all language comes from one symbolic sign used for pray to GOD. The central of symbol is the cross.
along with pictorgrams( for sacrifices )

according to bible, people began to pray very early. Genisis 4:26.

2. 
The meaning of symbolic sign is devolved to be used for human language writing communication or for divination. The meaning of symbol began to slip.

3.
All other language is devolved to be meaningless symbols and became the phonetics marks associated the rules of grammars. Only Chinese tried best to keep the original meaning of symbolic in maximium. However the script is kept, but original meaning is still lost. The cross became the meaning of number 10. 


The modern technology of computational modeling, computaional syntax analysis and other infor retreiving methodologies can greatly help us to decipher the scripts that has well developed grammars, but it does not help us to understand the meaning of original purpose. 


For layer 1/2, Bible is the only tool, that use the our known devloved phonetic languages in the world to turn us back to original ancient point of the human writings. Without bible, it would never ever for later on humans to be able to find out the origins of human writings. People will stop by and be satified by the explaination of Darwin's involution theory.


For chinese words history, we can found that OBI is very simple as compared with traditional words.
The simplifed words simply the number of lines in words, that came back to the simpilicty where OBI had, however, the meaning and shapes are mutated. The more changes the chinese made on words, the more hard to learn it.
The circulation of changes made in hisory, simple-> complicated -> simple -> complicated ->....
Each loop will change the meaning and shape of the words. The amazing thing for chinese word architecture is that the cross is not lost no matter how many times the the revolution it experienced.


The OBI or Earliest Cuneiform can be thought as the earliest version of bible.



















